_pages/about.md, before:

---
layout: about
title: about
permalink: /
subtitle: <a href='#'>Affiliations</a>. Address. Contacts. Motto. Etc.

profile:
  align: right
  image: prof_pic.jpg
  image_circular: false # crops the image to make it circular
  more_info: >
    <p>555 your office number</p>
    <p>123 your address street</p>
    <p>Your City, State 12345</p>

news: true # includes a list of news items
selected_papers: true # includes a list of papers marked as "selected={true}"
social: true # includes social icons at the bottom of the page
---

Write your biography here. Tell the world about yourself. Link to your favorite [subreddit](http://reddit.com). You can put a picture in, too. The code is already in, just name your picture `prof_pic.jpg` and put it in the `img/` folder.

Put your address / P.O. box / other info right below your picture. You can also disable any of these elements by editing `profile` property of the YAML header of your `_pages/about.md`. Edit `_bibliography/papers.bib` and Jekyll will render your [publications page](/al-folio/publications/) automatically.

Link to your social media connections, too. This theme is set up to use [Font Awesome icons](https://fontawesome.com/) and [Academicons](https://jpswalsh.github.io/academicons/), like the ones below. Add your Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, Google Scholar, or just disable all of them.

Commit message:

Update the 'about' page and CV

_pages/about.md, after:

---
layout: about
title: about
permalink: /
subtitle: Tenured assistant professor @<a href='https://vu.nl/en/about-vu/faculties/faculty-of-science/departments/mathematics'>Department of Mathematics, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam</a> 

profile:
  align: right
  image: prof_pic.jpg
  image_circular: false # crops the image to make it circular
  more_info: >
    <p><a href=mailto:a.zocca@vu.nl>a.zocca@vu.nl</a></p>
    <p>De Boelelaan 1111</p>
    <p>1081 HV, Amsterdam, </p>
    <p>The Netherlands</p>

news: true # includes a list of news items
selected_papers: true # includes a list of papers marked as "selected={true}"
social: true # includes social icons at the bottom of the page
---

My research is centered around the study of complex networked systems in which randomness plays a crucial role. More specifically, I study **dynamics and rare events in networks affected by uncertainty**, drawing motivation from real-world applications in power systems. My work lies mostly in the area of applied probability but has deep ramifications in areas as diverse as operations research, graph theory, and optimization.

My long-term goal as a researcher is twofold. First, I aim to quantify and analyze the randomness emerging in these complex systems using both **rigorous mathematical tools** and **data-driven learning methods**. Second, I plan to develop adaptive algorithms and reinforcement learning control strategies to mitigate the impact of high-impact, low-probability events and enhance network robustness.

As the **climate crisis** exacerbates the frequency and severity of extreme weather events, my research aims to develop a novel and rigorous mathematical understanding of **power systems' resilience** against such phenomena, which naturally exhibit pronounced spatial and temporal correlations.

More broadly, I am interested in stochastic dynamics on networks, especially when a non-trivial interplay emerges between the network structure and the system’s randomness, a setting where applied probability, learning, and optimization naturally meet.

I currently (co)supervise several PhD students:
- **Erica van der Sar** at VU (2021-present) on _“Multi-agent RL for power system topology control”_
- **Chris Franssen** at VU (2022-present) on _"First-order methods for network optimization"_
- **Berend Markhorst** at VU (2022-present) on _"Stochastic and robust optimization for pipe routing design"_
- **Jobke Janssen** at CWI (2023-present) on _"Stochastic optimization of frequency reserve markets"_

I am currently writing a textbook titled **Hands-on Mathematical Optimization in Python** together with K. Postek, J. Gromicho, and J. Kantor. Resources and companion code are available [here](https://mobook.github.io/MO-book/).
